Okay. So here is the sorting key or a visualization of the sorting key,
where we have a fact table and the idea will not merely
be the 100 percent distribution or load balancing,
but the focus is going to be on having the sorting key and now that being the dimension
date being sorted inside each slice so that when we actually try to serve this,
forget about the join now,
you will figure out the join maybe if you do
here all and join here and you have ordered by,
you'll get no shuffling and nice performance.
You might get a little bit of a hit because you did this.
So it's actually a subtle art and you might get a little bit of trade-offs.
But the point is if you do order by a field a lot,
you might want to mark it as a sort key.
Here's the syntax.
Here is for example the order date and you would mark it as a sort key,
and perhaps the primary key of the dimension table could be a sort key and a dist key.
Finally, actually we're going to do a demo together where are we going to see
the gains or the performance improvements of establishing a strategy like this.
So we're going to have a number of queries and depending on the nature of the query and
what pattern of access does it actually perform on the partition tables for example,
here you see the blue ones.
This is the time for each query when we did not specify any dist key and sort key,
and the orange one is when we apply actually a little bit of dist key and sort key.
Here we're measuring those into performance and we're getting
close to 70 percent improvement on one of the quiz,
and if I'm not mistaken,
we're going through the demo.
But actually, if I remember correctly,
this was a fact table and we're doing like grouping by three dimensions.
So that's a lot of join.
So if we did it without any distribution,
is going to be really a lot of work,
but if we actually did the broadcasting for all the dimensions,
that goes really fast.